# Thesis Code

## Ordinal Partition Network-of-Networks for Paleoclimate Analysis
Honours thesis completed at the University of Western Australia, 2022.

### Abstract:
Studying past climate events enables climatologists to better understand the present, and make more informed predictions of the future. This understanding is crucial in the context of tropical monsoon systems, which impact not only the livelihood and prosperity of the hundreds of millions of residents in these monsoon regions, but also the numerous regions around the globe that rely on monsoon flows for the transportation of heat and precipitation. Tropical monsoon systems are intricately coupled across both hemispheres and across differing timescales, driven by a combination of both local and global climate events. As a result of this complexity, current scientific understanding of how these regions interact is, in general, limited. By combining presently independent ideas from complex network theory, this dissertation proposes a novel ``ordinal partition network-of-networks'' approach to explore how the couplings between interacting regions of the East Asian-Indonesian-Australian Summer Monsoon vary, to better understand how monsoon systems respond to local or global forcing events. Using a paleoclimate reanalysis dataset, we establish the method's ability to assign long-term couplings between regions, which remain robust using increasingly noisy data. Finally, we analyse the response of monsoon system pairings to notable climate events, highlighting the delicate dependencies under which a monsoon operates. 
